Now that you’re writing longer programs, it’s a good idea to
learn how to style your code consistently. Take the time to
make your code as easy as possible to read. Writing easy-to
read code helps you keep track of what your programs are
doing and helps others understand your code as well.
Python programmers have agreed on a number of styling
conventions to ensure that everyone’s code is structured in
roughly the same way. Once you’ve learned to write clean
Python code, you should be able to understand the overall
structure of anyone else’s Python code, as long as they
follow the same guidelines. If you’re hoping to become a
professional programmer at some point, you should begin
following these guidelines as soon as possible to develop
good habits.


When someone wants to make a change to the Python
language, they write a Python Enhancement Proposal (PEP).
One of the oldest PEPs is PEP 8, which instructs Python
programmers on how to style their code. PEP 8 is fairly
lengthy, but much of it relates to more complex coding
structures than what you’ve seen so far.
The Python style guide was written with the
understanding that code is read more often than it is
written. You’ll write your code once and then start reading it
as you begin debugging. When you add features to a
program, you’ll spend more time reading your code. When
you share your code with other programmers, they’ll read
your code as well.
Given the choice between writing code that’s easier to
write or code that’s easier to read, Python programmers will
almost always encourage you to write code that’s easier to
read. The following guidelines will help you write clear code
from the start

PEP 8 recommends that you use four spaces per indentation
level. Using four spaces improves readability while leaving
room for multiple levels of indentation on each line.
In a word processing document, people often use tabs
rather than spaces to indent. This works well for word
processing documents, but the Python interpreter gets
confused when tabs are mixed with spaces. Every text
editor provides a setting that lets you use the TAB key but
then converts each tab to a set number of spaces. You
should definitely use your TAB key, but also make sure your
editor is set to insert spaces rather than tabs into your
document.
Mixing tabs and spaces in your file can cause problems
that are very difficult to diagnose. If you think you have a
mix of tabs and spaces, you can convert all tabs in a file to
spaces in most editors

Many Python programmers recommend that each line
should be less than 80 characters. Historically, this guideline
developed because most computers could fit only 79
characters on a single line in a terminal window. Currently,
people can fit much longer lines on their screens, but other
reasons exist to adhere to the 79-character standard line
length.
Professional programmers often have several files open on
the same screen, and using the standard line length allows
them to see entire lines in two or three files that are open
side by side onscreen. PEP 8 also recommends that you limit
all of your comments to 72 characters per line, because
some of the tools that generate automatic documentation
for larger projects add formatting characters at the
beginning of each commented line.
The PEP 8 guidelines for line length are not set in stone,
and some teams prefer a 99-character limit. Don’t worry too
much about line length in your code as you’re learning, but
be aware that people who are working collaboratively
almost always follow the PEP 8 guidelines. Most editors
allow you to set up a visual cue, usually a vertical line on
your screen, that shows you where these limits are.

To group parts of your program visually, use blank lines. You
should use blank lines to organize your files, but don’t do so
excessively. By following the examples provided in this
book, you should strike the right balance. For example, if
you have five lines of code that build a list and then another
three lines that do something with that list, it’s appropriate
to place a blank line between the two sections. However,
you should not place three or four blank lines between the
two sections.
Blank lines won’t affect how your code runs, but they will
affect the readability of your code. The Python interpreter
uses horizontal indentation to interpret the meaning of your
code, but it disregards vertical spacing



