When you write a function or a class, you can also write tests
for that code. Testing proves that your code works as it’s
supposed to in response to all the kinds of input it’s designed
to receive. 

When you write tests, you can be confident that
your code will work correctly as more people begin to use your
programs. You’ll also be able to test new code as you add it, to make sure
your changes don’t break your program’s existing behavior. 

Every programmer makes mistakes, so every programmer
must test their code often, to catch problems before users encounter them.

While Python includes a lot of functionality in the standard
library, Python developers also depend heavily on third
party packages. 

A third-party package is a library that’s
developed outside the core Python language. Some popular
third-party libraries are eventually adopted into the
standard library, and end up being included in most Python
installations from that point forward. 

This happens most
often with libraries that are unlikely to change much once
they’ve had their initial bugs worked out. These kinds of
libraries can evolve at the same pace as the overall
language.

Many packages, however, are kept out of the standard
library so they can be developed on a timeline independent
of the language itself. 

These packages tend to be updated
more frequently than they would be if they were tied to
Python’s development schedule. 

This is true of pytest and
most of the libraries we’ll use in the second half of this
book. 

You shouldn’t blindly trust every third-party package,
but you also shouldn’t be put off by the fact that a lot of
important functionality is implemented through such
packages.

Python includes a tool called pip that’s used to install third
party packages. Because pip helps install packages from
external resources, it’s updated often to address potential
security issues. So, we’ll start by updating pip.

To update any third party package, we use:
$ python -m pip install --upgrade package_name

If you’re using Linux, pip may not be included with
your installation of Python. 